README.md, before:

# Smriti
## Translation Memory (TM)

A translation momory (TM) is a data store /database to store "segments", which are sentences or paragraphs or sentence like units those are previously been translated. Each segments are called translation units (TU)  each TU has at least two parts of information : source segment and the target unit. 

Smaller units such as words or idioms are handled by Translation memory and handled by Glossaries/ Terminologies or a translation/Localization project.

## Translation Memory eXchange (**TMX**)

Out of numerous popular formats for sharing and exchangin Translation Memory TMX is one. It is a based on the XML specification. 

An example TMX file looks like this : 

``` xm
<tmx version="1.4">
  <header
    creationtool="XYZTool" creationtoolversion="1.01-023"
    datatype="PlainText" segtype="sentence"
    adminlang="en-us" srclang="en"
    o-tmf="ABCTransMem"/>
  <body>
    <tu>
      <tuv xml:lang="en">
        <seg>Hello world!</seg>
      </tuv>
      <tuv xml:lang="fr">
        <seg>Bonjour tout le monde!</seg>
      </tuv>
    </tu>
  </body>
</tmx>
```

## Why Translation Memory (TM)

- TM helpes in a localization or translation project by increasing contributor productivity.
- TM helps maintain consistency across localization or translations project if shared same set of TM.

## Open Translation Memory (TM)

Open Translation Memory that is reviewed by the community and can be used freely* is a must have thing.

Commit message:

README.md: adding projects, improving readability

README.md, after:

# Smriti
Smriti is a collection of TMX files from several open source localization proejcts from several contributors . Main projects from where these TMX are derived are :

- Firefox Nepali Localization Project
- Libre Office Localization Project
- KDE (K-Desktop Environment) Localization Project
- Mediawiki Localization Project

We'd like to thank, respective contributors and projects. These files inherit the legal and licensing requirement enforced by the respective projects and creators.

## Translation Memory (TM)

A translation momory (TM) is a data store /database to store "segments" from a translation or localization project, which are sentences or paragraphs or sentence like units those are previously been translated. Each segments are called translation units (TU)  each TU has at least two parts of information : source segment and the target segment. 

Smaller units such as words or idioms are handled by Translation memory and handled by Glossaries/ Terminologies in a translation/Localization project.

## Translation Memory eXchange (**TMX**)

Out of numerous popular formats for sharing and exchanging Translation Memory TMX is one. It is a based on the XML specification. 

An example TMX file looks like following : 

``` xm
<tmx version="1.4">
  <header
    creationtool="XYZTool" creationtoolversion="1.01-023"
    datatype="PlainText" segtype="sentence"
    adminlang="en-us" srclang="en"
    o-tmf="ABCTransMem"/>
  <body>
    <tu>
      <tuv xml:lang="en">
        <seg>Hello world!</seg>
      </tuv>
      <tuv xml:lang="fr">
        <seg>Bonjour tout le monde!</seg>
      </tuv>
    </tu>
  </body>
</tmx>
```

## Why Translation Memory (TM)

- TM helpes in a localization or translation project by increasing contributor productivity.
- TM helps maintain consistency across localization or translations project if shared same set of TM.

## Open Translation Memory (TM)

Open Translation Memory that is reviewed by the community and that can be used freely* is a must have thing. 

## How can I contribute?

- Please feel free to donate your TMXs if you own any.
- Please feel free to use these TMXs.
- Please feel free to suggest changes on any Translation Units (TU) on any kind of language defects such as grammer, structure, typo or context.
